### Goroutines
*Source: https://www.sololearn.com/learning/1164/4934/12668/1*

---
- In the program below, the `out()` function simply outputs numbers in the given range. `time.Sleep()` is used to emulate work being done between the outputs just for demonstration purposes. It simply waits for the provided time (50 ms) before continuing the execution.
- If the function is called in the main two times, the first call will execute first followed by the second call. This will generate the output of 0 to 5, then 6 to 10.
- This is called a sequential program, as the statements are executed one after the other. The first call needs to complete, before the second call starts.
```go
func out(from, to int) {
    for i := from; i <= to; i++ {
        time.Sleep(50 * time.Millisecond)
        fmt.Println(i)
    }
}

func main() {
    out(0, 5)
    out(6, 10)
}
```

- When running concurrent programs, it's not often wanting to wait for one task to finish before starting a new one.
- To achieve concurrency, the first step is to start function calls as Goroutines, using the **`go`** keyword.
- If the program below is run, it results in a surprising output -- `No Output`. But why? This output happens because the `main()` function exits before the Goroutines complete.
- The program below has 3 virtual threads: 2 function calls to `out()`, and `main()`. The 2 function calls get executed concurrently, and main() does not wait for them to finish.
```go
func main() {
    go out(0, 5)
    go out(6, 10)
}
```

- There is a mechanism to sync the Goroutines so that it is possible to know when one completes its execution in `main()`.