### Channels
*Source: https://www.sololearn.com/learning/1164/4888/12664/1*

---
- As saw in the [previous lesson](./40.1.md), Goroutines run independently and they do not know when another one has finished executing. This causes, for example, the `main()` function to quit, before any started Goroutine has finished.
- To enable communication between Goroutines, Go provides **channels**.
- A **channel** is like a pipe, allowing for sending and receiving data from Goroutines, and enabling them to communicate and synchronize.
- To use a channel, the first step is tro create one using the `make()` function.
- The type after the **`chan`** keyword indicates the type of the data that will be sent throught the channel.
```go
ch := make(chan int)
```

- Sending data to the channel uses the following syntax:
```go
ch <- 8
```

- Similarly, data can be received from the channel using the following syntax:
```go
value := <- ch
```

- If the value doesn't need to be used as a variable, the syntax is:
```go
<- ch
```

- Rewriting the previous example, a `bool` channel is defined and passes to the `out()` function as an argument. After the function finishes its task, it sends the value `true` to the channel, which is received in `main()`.
- Now `main()` is waiting to receive data from the channel, making the program wait for the Goroutines to finish executing.
- The receive operation blocks the code until and unless some data is sent by the send operation. If no data is received, a **deadlock** will occur, blocking the code from executing.
```go
func out(from, to int, ch chan bool) {
    for i := from; i <= to; i++ {
        time.Sleep(50 * time.Millisecond)
        fmt.Println(i)
    }
    ch <- true
}

func main() {
    ch := make(chan bool)

    go out(0, 5, ch)
    go out(6, 10, ch)

    <- ch
}
```

- The program below calculates the sum of all even numbers in a given range plus the sum of their squares and outputs the result: output = evenSum + squareSum.
- It has two Goroutines: one to calculate the evenSum, and the other to calculate the squareSum.
- The data is received from channels in `main()`, and used to calculate and output the final sum.
```go
func evenSum(from, to int ch chan int) {
    result := 0
    for i := from; i <= to; i++ {
        if i % 2 == 0 {
            result += 1
        }
    }
    ch <- result
}

func squareSum(from, to int, ch chan int) {
    result := 0
    for i := from; i <= to; i++ {
        if i % 2 == 0 {
            result += i*i
        }
    }
    ch <- result
}

func main() {
    evenCh := make(chan int)
    sqCh := make(chan int)

    go evenSum(0, 100, evenCh)
    go squareSum(0, 100, sqCh)

    fmt.Println(<- evenCh + <- sqCh)
}
```

- Channels can be closed using **`close(ch)`**, where `ch` is the name of the channel. This is done in the sender when there is no need to send data to a channel anymore.